And we've talked a lot about skills,
the different skills you'll need.
More importantly, you're probably
thinking, yeah, there's some skills that I
wasn't aware of or I probably didn't
even mention, there's a lot to it.
Earlier when we thought of roles,
all the roles that EMs play.
Think of all the skills it takes to be
the lawyer, versus the cheerleader,
versus the coach, versus the speaker of
the house, different skill sets entirely.
So now,
we're gonna take a 15 minute exercise and
let's talk about your own personal skills.
I want you to think critically
about what are you good at?
What are you not so good at?
And be honest with yourself cuz
I'm not seeing what you write, but
it'll be a helpful exercise just
to put it out there on paper.
So let's jump into this exercise.
Like Ryan said,
his favorite way of learning is by doing.
Same with me,
I don't like to see other people do it,
I'd rather just jump in and do it.
If that's something I need to fix, I need
to step back and see what I can learn.
Probably read more books.
But that's one of the challenges is
the only way to get good at leadership is
actually do it.
There's different ways you
can get touches of it.
But right now it's good to focus on like,
what are the skills that
build up to doing that?
And if you build up these skills,
it'll make the transition so much easier.
For example, the most common one I
talked about was public speaking.
You're gonna have to do it.
The minute you become a manager,
you're gonna have to do it.
But you can build up those skills
over time, so it's not so daunting.
So it's not just a shock when
you get up in front of people.
All right now I want you to take
15 minutes and fill this out, and
then we'll talk about some of
your answers after you're done.
So start with a personal assessment.
What are your strengths?
Is it public speaking?
Is it communication?
Are you a great writer?
You just get stuff out really easily.
Are you good at organizing?
Are you an extrovert, your life of
the party bringing people together?
What are the things you're not so good at?
There's probably probably a lot there,
if you're being honest.
And then talk about how you
translate those strengths and
weaknesses into engineering management.
How do you think they're gonna show up?
What transfer you lean on today,
it doesn't mean you have to focus all your
energy on your thing in your weaknesses.
Strengths are just as important.
Then what additional skills or
knowledge you think you need,
like what's the most critical things
that you need to fix or build up?
And then for those top three
areas that you'd like to improve,
write down a quick blurb.
Why is it important to you?
How are you doing on it today?
And how am I measuring if I'm being
successful in growing this skill?
You just have to do it for three.
You can do as many as you want,
but I recommend three.
So take 15 minutes and fill this out, and
then we'll come back in and talk about it.
I definitely wanna hear from
you all on any discoveries or
epiphanies you've had
while filling this out.
How was the exercise?
Anything interesting you
discovered about yourself?
When I didn't write
the personal assessment,
but I think some of my
strengths are public speaking.
I don't know if I'm good at it, but
it doesn't bother me to
get up in front of people.
I do conference talks, but I'd done
conference talk before I became a manager.
So I'd say that's one of
my strengths is presenting.
Verbal communication I'm pretty good at,
I probably over invest in reading people's
body language and saying like,
am I what is I'm saying landing?
Where are they at?
Am I being receptive?
Do I need to adjust my tone,
add more humor, less humor, etc.
Weaknesses, project
management [LAUGH] I'm not.
I create at it, I don't enjoy.
It's not from the most enjoyable part,
which means I haven't invested
a whole lot into doing it.
An area where I have tried to build
on that, build that up a little bit.
It's just having a template, for
project kick offs and things like that,
makes me so much easier.
I'm like, what are the milestones,
what are the meanings, all that,
having that in place, lets me kind
of bolster up that weakness of mine.
Another one is, my weakness is verbal
communication, because I consider
it strong, I tend to lean on a lot,
when I really need to stop and listen.
And just being silent and
working on doing that,
is definitely something I need
to get better at overtime.
>> I actually, I share that similar
issue with not knowing when to shut up.
And when I first became an engineering
manager my manager gave me
great advice to practice counting to
seven in your head without speaking.
Seven is like an uncomfortable enough
amount of time that you get introverts
to speak up or get people to kind of
start sharing more that you know.
Maybe they weren't feeling good
about saying right in a moment or
two but if you get a couple of seconds
you can get people to start opening
up a little bit more and and
find out the really good stuff.
>> Count to seven, that's a great tip.
I should probably do that.
That's so long though.
Seven seconds of silence.
If I wait, let me try seven
seconds of silence now, okay.
All right, that was seven seconds.
That's a while, but that's a good tip.
It's an uncomfortable amount of time.
I'd say my weaknesses outpace my strength,
but I'd say that's probably weaknesses
of mine is something I learned about
myself this year, even into my 30s.
I'm a perfectionist, not in everything.
That doesn't mean I keep my room clean and
all these other things.
It just means I don't like to deliver
something unless it's perfect.
Which turns out as an engineering manager,
that's a weakness.
Cuz it means I second-guess myself,
I triple-check,
I spend more time on things when,
you know what?
Sometimes it's just good enough and
that's fine.
And accepting that is something I'm
still working on today, which is.
Sometimes just send that email you don't
have to triple check it and run it
through AI and all these other things,
just send the email and get it done with.
What about you all what are some of your
strengths and weaknesses you uncover here.
>> I pride myself on being a really strong
critical thinker and having a strong
technical acumen and good understanding of
how the nuts and bolts all work together.
I do think that can manifest
certain weaknesses,
especially in how I articulate ideas and
proposals to others.
Because I often leapfrog
a lot of assumptions and
conclusions in my own head,
that my colleagues and
peers may not have arrived
at the same conclusions or,
made some of the same assumptions.
So having to break down those ideas and
pedal backwards,
to help them get caught up to
where my brain is a lot
of times is a challenge.
>> That's an interesting insight,
we do that a lot.
The stronger you are, the harder it is to
go back down and explain things to people.
My favorite one is a for loop.
I don't have to explain how a for
loop to any of you works, but
try explaining a for loop later to your
partner or your non-technical person.
They'll be like once,
again it's the one of those insights
you don't think about a lot.
But that's a great example of
understanding your strengths and
weaknesses, right?.
>> What are my strengths?
I think as a leader that I don't think I
would have known going into it as hiring,
very quick and good at hiring for
some reason and
it helped out a lot of others do that.
One of my weaknesses, I struggle to
delegate, I think that is a really
hard skill set in many ways of
like letting go of something or.
I definitely trust people to do it or
I can trust that, but
it's like sometimes knowing when's
the right time to delegate it,
when I'm like wait, I shouldn't be
doing this, I should delegate this.
Oftentimes I'll just be like,
I'll suffer through it and
I'll just do it when I could have
probably delegated it sooner.
>> That's a good one.
That's a hard one to learn too, yeah.
>> As a strength as an engineer, I feel
like I can hold a large mental model of
the product I'm working on, as long
as you kind of build that over time.
In a weakness, I'd say it was
prioritizing what needs to be done today,
versus what can wait till tomorrow.
I feel like I'm always off on
urgency with some of my other peers.
>> Yeah, those all these strengths or
all these weaknesses we're mentioning,
those are hard to.
>> Having tough conversations
when it's needed, but
it makes you uncomfortable having
to have that conversation?
>> Yeah, man.
You all are nailing these.
It's human nature to avoid conflicts,
it's just easier.
But it's often not the right thing to do.
>> The strength that I may not have
initially thought of going into leadership
as empathy although it seems obvious now.
I think especially going through,
just what we've been through as a world
in the last three or four years.
And then, a weakness I think is like
the business acumen like when you're
sitting in meetings with business
product people and VPs and higher-ups.
It's sometimes hard to like get the the
business speak down and understand what
they're talking about and be able to get
your point across, as a technical person.
>> [LAUGH] That's a real one for
me too, I'm like why should I care?
You should, but it's only later, much more
experience that I learned, I'm like, yeah,
you should care.
But that's a good one too.
>> [COUGH] How not to sound condescending
when you're talking to someone.
That's not technical.
Because sometimes it's, I understand, so
I smile because I understand how
they came to conclusion that's
incorrect because,
sometimes technologies and unintuitive.
And some of smiling cuz I get
exactly how they got there.
But now I've, it seems,
some people have told me it
seems like I'm laughing at them.
>> That's a really good perspective and
insight,
kinda similar to what you're saying
on like, you make these leaps and
you're like, yeah, it's obvious,
but not everybody's there.
Yeah, that's a great one, yeah.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> I guess talking about technical,
anytime I do have to talk about
something technical to somebody that
might not be as technical
might not be an engineer.
Being able to talk in analogies or
be able to talk about.
Whatever that thing is without
totally getting in the weeds of
why like [LAUGH] I think that's one of
my strengths, boy all my weaknesses.
Everything project management
thinking about, and
I guess one of the things
it's thinking about.
Things like, thinking binary about things
sometimes, thinking very black and
white about things when there's
probably a middle ground,
everything's kind of a, so
it's one thing I kind of struggle with.
>> Yeah, I call it the Star Trek,
really good at using analogies.
The captain, if the engines to
this it will be something which,
you don't realize it but it is something
really powerful to explain things.
I like that you called that out.
So I know there's an episode on Star Trek,
they made this constraint that
only uses an algae to communicate.
Anybody who knows what I'm
talking about will be like, yeah,
I've seen that episode.
Anyway, sorry, I'm just Star Trek
nerding out a little bit.
Next generation,
we'll see we're gonna get out.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Of Star Trek nerd.
So for for those you answered and
not everybody has to answer.
There's a question here.
>> Yeah, just a couple in the chat here.
Conflict avoidance has been something
that's been a thorn in my side
in the past.
That was just in comment to
a couple of the others there.
For me, it's a combination of impatience.
It's faster if I just do it myself,
but I love helping people and
freeing them of work
that they may not enjoy.
A strength for me is being
a strong advocate for my team and
providing support under
difficult circumstances.
I've often gotten the feedback
that I've spoken out for
my team when it's been critical.
And a lot of comments back and
forth to each other.
Let your engineers solve their problems.
And, Democ is the name of the episode.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Democ, thank you.
>> And Mark do you have some?
>> I don't know.
The only thing rolling through my head is,
there's kind of like a wartime
leader versus peacetime leader.
And I realize that I'm extremely
good at a peacetime leader,
and I've had to learn through
what the world went through
about becoming more of a time
later in that the world changed.
And so now how do we as an organization,
how do we run towards the change and
address it rather than shrinking back and
being like well now we
can't record in person.
So now we're just hamstrung, so,
yeah I had to learn that
how to dig deep and like.
Listen to customers, see what's going
on and really kind of like have us
all go towards that strongly instead
of like shrinking back, I guess.
>> Yeah,
I love that wartime versus peacetime.
And I think we were discussing this
yesterday, but remote work and COVID.
Exposed a lot of weaknesses in managers.
We probably didn't know we're there.
Fortunately I became a manager during
this time, but if your strength is,
I can sit you down face to face and
have a conversation and
understand what you're saying.
And then all of a sudden that's gone, and
you need to rely on your
written communication.
Yeah, you had it tough.
I think a lot of people leaders did.
Hopefully we're all better for
that, but your strengths and
weaknesses are gonna
vary from time to time.
And over time, sometimes what in my case,
verbal communication can
be a weakness as well.
Sometimes it's a strength,
it all really depends.
We won't go through the rest of these.
These are more personal to you,
but, one thank you all for sharing.
It takes a lot of courage to
share things you're not good at.
I think as a leader an important
skill is just being vulnerable and
being candid with people.
I tell my team that all
the time things I'm like, hey,
I'm really not good at this and
I'm trying to get better, and that's okay.
I think trying to try not cover those up,
just makes it worse.
You're just doing yourself a disservice,
so thanks for sharing.